[Music]
all right you marry mess makers there's
good news here are 10 proven tricks that
can help you clean your house faster
[Music]
according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics the average person spends
nearly 2 hours a day doing household
chores when you consider the fact you've
got 24 hours in a day 8 of which should
be spent sleeping and another 8 at
school or work then it seems like we're
spending a lot of time keeping our
houses tidy of course the simple and
easy solution to this is what hay hire
people to come and do this for you right
but hey if that's not in your budget
then here are 10 tips and tricks from
the pros to help you get it done quick
and easy now before you get that mop out
don't forget to click the subscribe
button and turn on post notifications to
join us on the bright side here's tip
number 1 start with decluttering
[Music]
you see a lot of people skip this step
simply because it's so easy to throw
something haphazardly into a closet or a
drawer but that's how clutter begins and
turns into a giant task later on the
best thing to do is to start by
decluttering before you even think about
scrubbing anything down go one room at a
time and put away everything that
doesn't belong in a certain place you
know everything should have a home right
so put away your books toys clothes and
electronic devices until you're left
with a tidy room number two use a trash
bag now going off that last note a trash
bag will be your best friend when it
comes to decluttering your entire home
always carry one with you as you're
picking up in case you come across
anything that you can throw away whether
it's actual trash or not a good rule of
thumb is that if you haven't used
something in the past ten to twelve
months chuck it or donate it
this will prevent clutter from piling up
you can also just empty all the smaller
trash cans like in the bathroom or work
area into the larger bag this will save
you the time of going around and pulling
the little bags out putting in new ones
and carrying them all to the large trash
bin number three
bring a cleaning carrier with you before
you start cleaning you first need to
gather up all your tools you don't need
a whole arsenal of cleaning supplies or
anything just keep in mind that a
disinfectant for hygienic purposes
bleach and a lime scale cleaner for the
bathroom glass cleaner furniture polish
cleaning cloths or paper towels and a
scrubbing brush definitely come in handy
I know I know
let's just call it a small arsenal or
even weapons of mass disinfection and
move on
put all your cleaning items in a basket
and carry it around with you in every
room this will save you the hassle of
running to wherever you keep your
cleaners each time you need one
number four dust first vacuum last dirt
and crumbs fall on the floor when you
dust and clean all the surfaces so it's
pretty useless to vacuum first because
you'll only add new dirt on the clean
floor whenever you wipe everything down
that just means you got a sweep your
floor second time ah dust first vacuum
last and save yourself from wasting time
and repeating steps when you don't have
to number five plan your movements
[Music]
whenever you walk into a dirty room it
can be a little overwhelming trying to
figure out where to begin
you might start cleaning one part of the
room and then notice something on the
other side and run over to take care of
it or you might just touch the areas
that look dirty what bacteria and dust
are hiding in every nook and cranny in
your house so you have to clean it all
start by going into every single room in
your house and moving from left to right
this way you can clean your whole house
thoroughly without missing any spots
number 6 spray and let it sit
here's a real lifesaver when it comes to
surfaces you typically have to scrub
like the stovetop and shower when you
walk into a room start by spraying all
the surfaces moving from left to right
go to the next room and repeat the same
thing without wiping anything away
once you've finished with all the rooms
and the product was left on the surface
long enough to break up any stubborn
mess go to the first room you sprayed
and start wiping away this will save you
so much time while leaving all your
surfaces clean and shiny without the
fuss of scrubbing number seven don't
forget the baseboards the baseboard
collects a lot of dust really fast yet
it's one of those things you tend to
miss because they're not that important
or decide to skip entirely because you
got a Crouch down to clean up however if
your house is clean but your baseboards
aren't then your home still looks dirty
it's like walking into a restaurant and
seeing baseboards covered and dust you
probably assume the whole place is dirty
even if it's not right so while you're
wiping the surfaces around the house
take a damp cloth and wipe the
baseboards from the left side of every
room to the right it'll only take you a
minute tops for each room but it'll make
a huge difference in your house number
eight vacuum upholstery couches
armchairs and mattresses can have more
than 10,000 dust mites living on the
surface these dust mites feed off dead
skin cells that are left on the area and
they're constantly multiplying yeah even
though you may not be allergic to dust
or mites they can still trigger
allergies in the future that's why it's
important to vacuum your furniture once
a week to keep dust mites and bacteria
away
number nine use dish soap as glass
cleaner believe it or not dish soap can
leave sticky surfaces crystal clean and
it gets rid of scale buildup on bathroom
windows and mirrors much better than
glass cleaner this help was made to
clean food residue left on plates
glasses and silverware to make it look
brand-new and shiny again it does that
thanks to special detergent molecules
that when dissolved in water can create
a sort of super molecule that makes any
dirt grease and residue on a glass
surface get absorbed by the water it's a
cheaper substitute for typical glass
cleaners yet still leaves your windows
and mirrors sparkling number 10
clean appliances right after use clean
your stovetop oven toaster and microwave
after each time you use them don't put
it off until your next major cleaning
day because that stuff just builds up
and gets harder and harder to scrub
clean which means a bigger task and
wasted time in the long run appliances
for food prep are especially prone to
stubborn stains because any spillage or
spots left over after one use will cool
down if they're not taken care of
immediately
once they've heated back up with the
next use they set themselves in firmly
and become almost impossible to remove
without damaging the surface of the
appliance just clean it up after each
use not before because your food might
absorb the cleaning chemicals and you'll
avoid all the headache and save time in
the end bonus a helpful cleaning
schedule to get your life on track
[Music]
when it comes to cleaning regular
maintenance is key if you want to save
time and energy
here's a nice cleaning schedule to get
you started
daily chores make the bed clean and
sanitize kitchen and bathroom surfaces
do the dishes yeah I know
tidy up your workstation do laundry if
necessary weekly chores sweep and mop
the floor vacuum upholstery and
mattresses change and wash the bedding
clean the bathroom tiles shower walls
clean the windows and bathroom mirrors
deep clean kitchen appliances wipe down
the baseboards wash bathroom and kitchen
towels monthly chores dust and clean
light fixtures clean the dishwasher
clean the vacuum cleaner
Hyup clean your cleaner throw out
expired food clean the fridge wipe down
the inside and outside of kitchen
cabinets and drawers clean the trash
cans dust furniture like chairs tables
bed frames the entertainment center and
so on and a final tip always remember to
whistle while you work hey it worked for
Snow White and she had seven little
slobs to clean up after so do you have
more tips on how to clean a house faster
tell us in the comments below don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click subscribe
to stay on the bright side of life
you